# settle's User Manual

`settle` is a command line note manager for the Zettelkasten method.

- exclusively recognizes wiki-style links (such as `[[Neurons]]`, that redirects
you to a Zettel titled "Neurons").
- looks for hashtag-tags, like `#psychology`. You could use subtags, such as
`#biology/neuroscience`.
- everything is stored locally
- set a custom Zettelkasten directory that contains notes.

Notes are written in Markdown. The filenames have a simple format,
`${TITLE}.md`.

## Configurability

The config file is located at `~/.config/settle/settle.yaml`. When you first
run the program, it's going to be autogenerated with the default values.

You can specify the following options:
- `zettelkasten`: path to Zettelkasten; requires absolute paths, such as
`/home/johndoe/zettelkasten/`
- `db_file`: the path relative to your Zettelkasten directory the program is
going to use for storing metadata

## Commands

Under the hood, it uses an SQLite database to keep track of note metadata: the
title and tags of the Zettel and the files it links to. Thus, it's fairly fast
for most operations. Make sure to keep it up to date; all commands rely on the
database!

- `help`: print a help message
- `generate`: create and populate the database with Zettel metadata
- `ls`: list existing files in Zettelkasten, based on database info
- `new`: create a new Zettel and add its metadata to the database
- `edit`: edit a currently existing Zettel and update database entry for it
afterwards
- `not-created`: return a list of Zettel that have links pointing to them, but
haven't been created
- `list-tags`: list all unique tags used in Zettelkasten
- `find`: search for Zettel that have been tagged with the specified tag. You
can use `%` as a wildcard, matching zero or more characters.
- `backlinks`: return a list of Zettel referencing the note specified as an
argument. You can use `%` as a wildcard, matching zero or more characters.
- `search`: return a list of Zettel that contain specified text. You can use
regex wildcards, i.e. `*` to match zero or more characters.

## Authors

Written and maintained by xylous \<xylous.e@gmail.com\>. You can also [find me on
GitHub](https://github.com/xylous).
