# settle

Settle is a Zettelkasten note manager. All notes are written in Markdown and are
stored locally.

As of v0.26.0, Settle no longer supports editing a file directly.
Therefore, you're probably going to want to use (or write) a plugin for your
favourite editor, such as [settle.vim](https://github.com/xylous/settle.vim) for
Vim and Neovim.

## Synopsis

```
settle <command> [<args>]
settle [-h | --help | -V | --version]
```

## Options

- `-h`, `--help` - Print usage information

- `-V`, `--version` - Print version information

## Commands

- `help` - Print usage information broadly or, if a subcommand is given, usage
    information for said subcommand

- `compl` - Generate autocompletion file for a certain shell (currently
    supported: zsh, bash, fish) (see: section on autocompletion)

- `generate` - Create and populate the database with all Zettel's metadata

    All subdirectories within the Zettelkasten one are treated as "projects"

    If ran for the first time, creates a directory to hold all your notes (as
    per your configuration options) and populates it with an 'inbox' project

- `ls` - List existing files in Zettelkasten, based on database info

- `new`

    Create a new Zettel and add its metadata to the database, but don't
    overwrite; if the file exists and the metadata entry also exists, abort

    With the `-p` or `--project` option, you can specify a certain project
    (directory within the zettelkasten) to create your new note in.

- `update` - Update the metadata for a given path. If the path isn't a file or
    doesn't exist, print an error message.

- `query` - Return existing Zettel matching the pattern provided as argument

- `ghost` - Print a list of Zettel that have links pointing to them, but haven't
    been created

- `tags` - List all unique tags used in the Zettelkasten

- `projects` - List all projects that the Zettelkasten contains

- `find` - Search for Zettel that have the specified tag

- `links` - Print the Zettel that match the query provided and the forward links
    they contain

- `backlinks` - Print the Zettel (plural) that match the query provided and the
    Zettel (also plural) that have links pointing to them

- `search` - Return a list of Zettel that contain the specified text

- `zk` - Print the absolute path to the directory Settle uses

- `isolated` - Print the list of all Zettel (in the main Zettelkasten!) that
    aren't linked with others

## Configuration

The configuration file is at either `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/settle/settle.yaml`, if
`$XDG_CONFIG_HOME` is set, either `~/.config/settle/settle.yaml`, by default.

- `zettelkasten` - directory in which the notes are stored at

    If you don't specify an absolute path, e.g. `notes`, it's assumed you want
    your Zettelkasten to be at `~/notes`. You can also use paths containing
    environment variables or paths starting with a tilde (`~`)

- `template` - Path to Zettel template

    If empty, or if the path is invalid, then templates won't be used. You can
    use paths containing environment variables, or a leading tilde (`~`).

## Templates

Template files are used when creating new Zettel. The text they contain gets put
inside said new note, replacing variables.

### Placeholders

- `${TITLE}` - placeholder for the actual title
- `${DATE}` - replaced with the output of `date +%Y-%m-%d`

### Example template

```md
# ${TITLE}



### References


```

## Wildcards

Settle supports two wildcards that'll come in very handy:

- `*` - matches zero or more characters
- `.` - matches a single character

If you want a literal `*`, or a literal `.`, you'll need to escape the
character, i.e. `\*` or `\.`. If you want a literal backslash, you're also going
to have to escape it, i.e. `\\`. All other text is matched literally.

## Autocompletion

Shell completions can be generated by the user at runtime, by using the `compl`
command. In most cases, you'll need to create a directory for user-defined
completions, then add `settle`'s output to it.

If you want XDG compliance, you probably know what you're doing, so just replace
a few things here and there.

### bash

Add the following text to the `~/.bash_completion` file:

```bash
for comp_file in ~/.bash_completion.d/*; do
    [[ -f "${comp_file}" ]] && . "${comp_file}"
done
```

And then run the following commands:

```bash
mkdir ~/.bash_completion.d
settle compl bash >~/.bash_completion.d/settle
```

### zsh

In your terminal, run:

```zsh
mkdir ~/.zsh_completion.d
settle compl zsh >~/zsh_completion.d/_settle
```

Then add this line in your zshrc:

```zsh
fpath=(${HOME}/.zsh_completion.d $fpath)
```

### fish

Run the following commands:

```fish
mkdir -p ~/.config/fish/completions
settle compl fish >~/.config/fish/completions/settle.fish
```

## License & Credits

[Licensed under MIT](../LICENSE)

Written by xylous \<xylous.e@gmail.com\>
